Lab 1
In this lab, you will install RHEL to create a basic server on a KVM-based VM. You will need sufficient room for one hard disk of at least 16GB (with sufficient space for 11GB of data plus a swap partition, Lab Questions 109 assuming at least 512MB of spare RAM for the VM). You’ll also need room for an additional two virtual hard drives of 1GB each (18GB total).  The steps in this lab assume an installation on a KVM-based VM. To start the process, open a GUI and run the virt-manager command. If it doesn’t happen automatically, right-click the Localhost (QEMU) option and click Connect in the pop-up menu that appears. Enter the root administrative password if prompted to do so. Once connected, you can then right-click the same option and then click New. This starts the wizard that helps configure a VM.  If you’re configuring the actual VMs to be used in future chapters, this will be the server1.example .com system discussed in Chapter 1.  Ideally, there will be sufficient space on your main machine for at least four different virtual systems of the given size. That includes the three systems specified in Chapter 1, plus one spare. In other words, a logical volume or partition with 75GB of free space would be (barely) sufficient.  The steps described in this lab are general. By this time, you should have some experience with the installation of RHEL 7. In any case, the exact steps vary with the type of installation and the boot media:

1. Start with the RHEL 7 network boot CD or the installation DVD.

2. Based on the steps discussed in Chapter 1, start the installation process for RHEL 7.

3. From the Installation Summary screen, select Installation Source and point the system to the FTP-based installation server created in Chapter 1. If you followed the directions in that chapter, the server will be on ftp://192.168.122.1/pub/inst.

4. From the Installation Summary screen, click Installation Destination and select custom partitioning.

5. Create the first partition of about 500MB of disk space, formatted to the xfs filesystem, and assign it to the /boot directory.

6. Create the next partition with 1GB of disk space (or more, if space is available), reserved for swap space.

7. Create a third partition with about 10GB disk space, formatted to the xfs filesystem, and assign it to the top-level root directory, /.

8. Create another partition with about 1GB of disk space and assign it to the /home directory.

9. From the Installation Summary screen, set up the local system on a network configured on the KVM hypervisor. The default is the 192.168.122.0/24 network; for the server1.example.com system, this will be on IP address 192.168.122.50 and gateway 192.168.122.1. Configure the hostname server1.example.com.

10. From the Installation Summary screen, click Software Selection and then select Server with GUI. Installation of virtualization packages within a VM is not required.

11. Continue with the installation process, using your best judgment.

12. Reboot when prompted and log in as the root user. Run the poweroff command when you’re ready to finish this lab.
